Title: Drunk driver gets away
Date: 2012-08-22 07:40
Author: Alexenko
Category: Me

So I learned some valuable lessons about law enforcement. If you know
what you're doing, you can get away with a DUI even after causing an
accident.

I went out for some cigars with my friend Erik to this place called
"Emerson's" on the corner of Virginia Beach and Beasley. We got kicked
out before we were able to finish cigars so we decided to finish them
outside, no point in wasting a good cigar. So we're standing outside and
we see this little black Scion xB stop at the stop sign, going on
Beasley, trying to make a turn onto Virginia Beach, waiting for the cars
to pass. One eye blink later, a Nissan Xterra runs into it. Apparently
the driver took the turn too wide and ran into the Scion. Okay, it
happens. Lots of stupid people everywhere. The Xterra driver hesitates,
but then sees us standing there so he decides to pull over into the
parking lot to exchange information.

<!--more-->

As the Xterra driver gets out it looked like he wobbled. I wasn't sure,
so I didn't say anything, but apparently the other guys standing outside
with me noticed it as well. Mr. Xterra proceeds to apologize profusely,
says he took the turn too wide, asks how everyone is doing, etc. I guess
his spiel was so convincing that the lady driving the Scion decides not
to call the cops. Mistake \#1.

I dialled 911 to report the accident anyways, just because the lady
getting out of the car looked hurt. She moved really slow and it looked
like her neck/arm were seriously hurt. While talking to the dispatcher,
the Ms. Scion and Mr. Xterra wrap up their information exchange and Mr.
Xterra hightails it out of there. Apparently he lives around that area
and was going home. Though I called the police, I never told either of
the drivers involved. Mistake \#2. I did tell Ms. Scion that I called
the police, but only after Mr. Xterra left.

A police officer arrived a few minutes later, wrote down the address of
Mr. Xterra and left saying he'll be right back. The PO returned a few
minutes later and explained the situation to all of us. Apparently Mr.
Xterra had a few drinks and was driving home. Because he stopped to
exchange information he didn't flee the scene, so they couldn't charge
him for that. Because Mr. Xterra wasn't informed that the police was
called, he wasn't avoiding the police, so there was no charge there
either. And because right after leaving the scene he drove straight home
and proceeded to drink again, there was no way to tell what Mr. Xterra's
blood alcohol level was at the time of the accident. The PO explained
that if we would have told him that we called the police and he'd have
chosen to leave anyways, they could have charged him with that, but
alas, we didn't.

**Life lesson**: Call the police ASAP and tell everyone involved.
Otherwise people can get away with a DUI.
