Title: Google Wave and me
Date: 2010-02-17 13:49
Author: Alexenko
Category: Me
Tags: editor, google_wave

I received a [Google Wave][] invite some time ago. To be honest, I got
it shortly after it launched, back when an invite from Google took over
2 days to complete. Before I got the invite, the hype that went around
the internet most certainly got to me. Naturally, I thought it would be
the best thing since sliced bread and I could finally give up email. Boy
was I disappointed when I got that invite!

</p>

About 20 minutes after I got the invite, I logged off Google Wave. Sure
of the fact that it was the most pointless thing ever. It ranked pretty
high up on the pointless-web2.0-meter. I had [Google Docs][] and I had
[Google Talk][] and other AIM messengers. Google Wave didn't solve any
problems that I had at the time yet to use it I would have to learn
another collaborative tool ([wiki][] and svn have been working for now).
Why bother?

</p>

The other day, while browsing [Mashable][] posts about Google Wave I
remembered that I had an account. To my surprise I had 25 invites to
give away. With so many to spare, I proceeded to invite anyone and
everyone I knew. As it turns out, I was completely wrong about Google
Wave. It **IS** pretty awesome, given that one has enough
friends/collaborators using the service. It also helps that since it's
launch the Google Wave community has been very active. There are now
templates available for just about everything I would use it for, making
my life so much easier.

</p>

In the past couple days I started 5 waves, 3 for the upcoming trips, one
for a research paper, and one for planning an [offline] event. Seeing
people editing the document live on my screen serves as a sort of
motivational tool to start contributing.

</p>

I'm going to spend some time learning the proper way of using Google
Wave, seeing as how now the first wave (pun unintended) of google wavers
have graduated to wave jedis. It's not quite straight forward as I would
like it to be, but a "Live Email" is definitely something I didn't think
I would ever use. Yet I find myself finding uses for it almost
everywhere, given there's more than one person that needs to contribute
to it. I'll try to substitute email with wave whenever I can, but since
the number of people with accounts is still very limited, that might not
be an option most of the time.

</p>

We will see how it'll work out. Maybe once I'll setup my GIT server I
won't need Google Wave for writing research papers. We shall see what we
shall see....

</p>

  [Google Wave]: http://wave.google.com
  [Google Docs]: http://docs.google.com
  [Google Talk]: http://www.google.com/talk/
  [wiki]: http://cmrwiki.nsu.edu
  [Mashable]: http://www.mashable.com
