Title: Python framework overview continued
Date: 2012-09-10 17:17
Author: Alexenko
Category: Python
Tags: django, flask, framework, python

So writing about different frameworks did not work very well for me. I
finally gave up and tries something new. As per advice found on [fRui
Apps][] I decided to just try all of the frameworks I could until I
found one that I liked. I tried just about everything, and I didn't like
most of them. I'm a beginner to this and all of the ones that I tried
were to complicated to start making something simple. Maybe down the
road once I have a pretty big application going and I know exactly what
I will need, I'll revisit the framework issue and refactor.

<!--more-->

I found flask to be the easiest to work with after taking the Udacity
class CS253. It is almost much better documented than webapp2 and It's
quite clear what's going on when something breaks. Ari keeps pushing me
to try Django, and so on Sunday/Monday (9/9-9/10) I decided to try it
out. It's really big and I spent most of the tutorial settings up the
admin page. Honestly, I don't like it. It is really complicated for what
I need right now, so I am going back to basics.Back to Flask.

Tonight I started with an empty project and created a form that lets me
input online classes into a database. Nothing fancy, but I was able to
do this from just reading the docs and looking over the tutorial. So far
I have nothing bad to say about it so I think we have a winner. Worst
case scenario I'll just learn some webdev and then switch to a different
framework.

I now need to tackle Jinja2, and that looks a bit less fun :(

  [fRui Apps]: http://blog.fruiapps.com/2012/05/Choose-your-Python-Web-Framework-the-Hard-Way
