Title: Sanibel Symposium 50th Anniversary
Date: 2010-03-07 13:45
Author: Alexenko
Category: Science
Tags: conference, dft, travel

Over the past week, Feb 26-Mar 2, I was on the St. Simon's Island in
Georgia attending the [50th Sanibel Symposium][]. When I first learned
about it I was not excited at all. It's a rather small conference by
national standards, at the time of registration they were anticipating
only about 400 attendees. I figured that the location was nice enough
for me to go there, and if the conference sucks, the beautiful resort
with an ocean front room would more than make up for it. Though this has
been my first time attending, I must say I am totally impressed with it.
Other national conferences, like the ones hosted by the American
Chemical Society (ACS) and the American Physical Society (APS), though
much larger, are mostly attended by experimentalists. Of course there
are theoreticians attending them, but they are few and far in between.
As someone who is going to graduate in the near future (hopefully)
Sanibel is a much better experience.

</p>

The symposium is organized by the people at the [University of Florida,
QTP][]. Naturally over half of the attendees had something to do with
the university (current students/faculty, alumni, ex-posdocs.. etc). As
a matter of fact, the only reason I know about it is because my Graduate
program coordinator at Norfolk State University was briefly at
University of Florida. She worked for Rod Barttlet, the main organizer
of this conference.

</p>

One of the most peculiar things about the conference is that the poster
sessions are really late. The average poster session ran from
9pm-11:30pm. I was told by one of the regular attendees that this year
the merciful organizers decided to spare us. Previously the poster
sessions would START at 12am and run for about 2 hours. Yes, they would
START at midnight...

</p>

At the conference I have learned many things from different people,
different ways of modeling the same system, different computational
models, etc. It was also an excellent networking opportunity. An
interesting side note: most people from europe give you the look of
death if they're standing around and you just walk up to them and
introduce yourself. Some of the attendees were [John Perdew][],
developer of [GGA functionals][], and [Karlheinz Schwarz][], developer
of the [Wien2k code][], along with many other prominent people from both
the academia and industry.  

</p>

One of the more interesting talks, at least for me, was by [Dr. Keiji
Morokuma][]. He showed the work done by his r[esearch group][] on
modeling the progress of formation of [fullerenes][] and [carbon
nanotubes][] by molecular dynamics. The impressive part of it was the
fact that it takes months of computational time on some of the world's
fastest super computers to simulate a few pico seconds of the reaction.
I was also really impressed by the poster of [Dr. Nicolae Atodireseij][]
on simulation of spin polarized STM spectrums. Like me he uses [VASP][],
but on a ridiculous scale, his average job runs on 16000 processors...
To compare what he's able to do with that kind of computational power,
on average my unit cell contains about \~60 atoms, one layer of his unit
cell contains 64 atoms, for a total of 500-700 atoms used for the whole
calculation... \*drool\*

</p>

In summary, I have honestly enjoyed this way more than I should. The
conference was great, the location was awesome, the food expensive, but
what do you expect from a resort. The social gatherings after the
talks/presentations were very interesting too. I must remember to bring
booze next time :)

</p>

KPICASA\_GALLERY(50thSanibelSymposium)  

</p>

  [50th Sanibel Symposium]: http://www.qtp.ufl.edu/Sanibel/
  [University of Florida, QTP]: http://www.qtp.ufl.edu/
  [John Perdew]: http://www.physics.tulane.edu/Faculty/John_Perdew/Site%202/John%20P.%20Perdew.html
  [GGA functionals]: http://th.physik.uni-frankfurt.de/~engel/vx-nr.html
  [Karlheinz Schwarz]: http://info.tuwien.ac.at/theochem/members/kschwarz/index.html
  [Wien2k code]: http://www.wien2k.at/
  [Dr. Keiji Morokuma]: http://www.chemistry.emory.edu/faculty/morokuma.html
  [esearch group]: http://kmweb.fukui.kyoto-u.ac.jp/top/eng/index.html
  [fullerenes]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fullerene
  [carbon nanotubes]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carbon_nanotube
  [Dr. Nicolae Atodireseij]: http://www.fz-juelich.de/portal/index.php?index=1325
  [VASP]: http://cms.mpi.univie.ac.at/vasp/
