Title: Snow Leopard + Mail.app + NSU = ?
Date: 2010-02-27 13:52
Author: Alexenko
Category: Me
Tags: mac, NSU, Software

I finally decided to upgrade to Snow Leopard because of two reasons 1)
better Exchange server support in Mail.app and 2) because it's new and
shiny and Leopard (10.5) was old and busted....

</p>

Though Mail.app does have better Exchange server support, it's far from
perfect. Norfolk State University uses Exchange server 2003 but it isn't
vanilla. As far as I understand, the frontend (webmail) is 2007, the
backend is 2003. Not sure why they did that, but regardless, those are
the cards dealt, but Outlook works fine. So does Entourage, but anyone
who used Entourage can tell you that sticking rusty nails into eyeballs
is far more pleasant.

</p>

Luckily NSU's OIT department is in the process of upgrading their mail
system. They are moving all of the student email accounts to
Microsofts's [outlook.com][] servers online. After long periods of
whining to the OIT people, I was "randomly" selected to be a beta-tester
for the new system. My email address is also changing: instead of
@nsu.edu I will now be @spartans.nsu.edu. I'm not thrilled about the
longer address, but now I can actually access my NSU mail from outside
the campus on the mac! Everything works quite well. Except that the
contact list is 8 people long... I'm an experimental bunny for OIT, and
they haven't moved everyone over to the new system yet.

</p>

Once everything is up an running I am told that the contact list will
contain all the students... Which will work for me 50% of the time. The
other 50% will require to pull up the directory page and search for
faculty/staff email addresses. That is pretty annoying on the iPhone.
That calls for more bitching and whining. Hopefully once I pitch a bitch
in the OIT department they will fix it, but who knows. Short of
synchronizing the two active directories, I don't see how they'll manage
to do it. That means they'll essentially have two redundant directories.

</p>

  [outlook.com]: http://outlook.com
